ID:Coll-1350
Collection, Sub-collection, and Item IDs
'Coll-1350'

Scope and Contents
"The collection consists of two volumes of manuscript notes from the classes of 'Regional Anatomy', 1934-1935, and numbered Volume II and Volume III: - Volume II is concerned with the 'Thorax and brain' - Volume III is concerned with the 'Head and neck'"

Biographical / Historical
"Edward Bald Jamieson, from Shetland, was a graduate of Edinburgh University (1900), and then demonstrator and lecturer in Anatomy at Edinburgh University. He was also an author of medical textbooks on Anatomy. William Rolland Scott Cowe was born on 24 October 1915 in Edinburgh. He studied at Edinburgh University and was awarded the degrees of Bachelor of Medicine, and Bachelor of Surgery, MB., Ch.B. on 20 July 1938. Still resident in Edinburgh in 1939, he was Obstetric House Surgeon at the Simpson Memorial Pavilion, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. His career then took him to Wigan, Lancashire, as House Surgeon at the Royal Infirmary there. In Keighley, Yorkshire, he served as the Police Surgeon, Keighley Division, West Riding Constabulary, and was a Clinical Assistant (Venereology) at Airedale General Hospital. During the Second World War he served as a Captain and then Major with the Royal Army Medical Corps, serving in Africa and Palestine. Cowe's prime interest was obstetrics and gynaecology and he became a member of the Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh with a presentation on Cardiac Disease in Pregnancy, January 1939. He went on to become a Fellow of the Royal Medical Society. In his specialism of veneorology, publications include the jointly written 'Penicillin in gonnorhea and syphilus' in the British Medical Journal in 1945, and 'Middle East granuloma' in the British Journal of Venereal Diseases also in 1945. William Rolland Scott Cowe retired to Kirk Yetholm, Roxburghshire, in the Scottish Borders, and he died there on 15 December 1986 ."

Processing Information
'Compiled by Graeme D. Eddie, Edinburgh University Library, Special Collections.'

