ID:Coll-1547
Collection, Sub-collection, and Item IDs
'Coll-1547'

Scope and Contents
"The document, which is a long clerk letter written in Latin 'on the Kalends of January in the year of our Salvation 1554', and signed 'The friend of your virtue Marie R', concerns itself with two Scotsmen, Robert Landis and George Kincaid, who had been imprisoned by John Vitner of Berg. One of them 'is almost destroyed by the filth of the prison' and 'the other is almost brought to extreme starvation by the delay in action and demands on his ruined fortune'. The letter goes on to say that 'we are surely confident that you will not desert these unfortunate and wretched merchants'. The letter is given 'at our Royal palace at Edinburgh'."

Biographical / Historical
"In December 1542, James V of Scotland died after becoming ill after his defeat at the Battle of Solway Moss. He died a few days after the birth of his only surviving child and heir - a daughter - Mary, Queen of Scots. Next in line to the Scottish throne was James Hamilton, 2nd Earl of Arran, and he became Regent. Hamilton became a Catholic and joined the pro-French faction in Scotland, consenting to the marriage of the child Queen to the French Dauphin, later Francis II of France. The French king awarded Hamilton the title of Duke of Châtellerault. In 1548 the young Queen of Scots went to live in the French court. In 1554, Hamilton surrendered the regency to Mary of Guise, Queen Mary's mother. In early January 1554, within the first months of her formal Regency of Scotland, Mary sent a letter to 'Magnifico viro Domino Viglio Caesarie Matis Secreti consilii...' concerning the plight of two Scotsmen, Robert Landis and George Kincaid, who had suffered 'insults' and had been imprisoned by John Vitner of Berg. The letter shows Mary of Guise exercising her powers with one of the most influential men in Europe. The man in question was Viglio a Zuichem, or Virgilius - Wigle Aytta van Zwichem (1507-1577) - a Dutch statesman and jurist. Viglio was one of the most trusted ministers of the Holy Roman Emperor, Charles V, and was President of the Council of Mechlin (Mechelen)."

Processing Information
'Catalogued by Graeme D. Eddie 6 June 2014'

