ID:Coll-1603
Collection, Sub-collection, and Item IDs
'Coll-1603'

Scope and Contents
"The collection is composed of: Box 1: 1 x photograph album with 'C. L' Gill' on endpaper. Album includes approx. 86 photographs of architectural subjects interspersed with family groups. Various captions including : New House, Sevenoaks, Jan-Feb '09, group photographs, the Fleet at Southend, King Edward's funeral, continental Europe 1 x photograph album with 'C. L' Gill' on endpaper. Album, 1908, includes approx. 48 photographs largely of Parisian buildings, building plans, street views and facades 1 x Sketchers' Note Book bound in linen, with sketches, some colour tinted of a 'Design for a British Embassy in a foreign capital', 1905. Clearly a project set by tutors: sketches of numerous buildings in Paris and london together with neatly finished elevations of Beaux-Arts edifice that could easily dominate a chosen site 1 x sketch book, in roan backed marbled boards, dated August 1912, and noted 'C. Lovett Gill' with drawings of 'Early Italian Renaissance' buildings, well-heads and monuments Box 2: 1 x sketch book, with pencil and watercolour sketches mainly of Paris, some colour tinted, but also some English architectural interiors, also details and buildings in London, Dublin and Edinburgh, from April 1905 onwards. Some dimensional plans 1 x sketch book, dated from 1904, with railings, St. Paul's Covent Garden, Jermyn Street facade, Fountain Court at Hampton Court, and other views of Hampton Court 1 x sketch book, dated from October 1904, with doorways, architecural detail, and including St. Martins-in-the-Fields 1 x sketch book, in green cloth, dated from August 1906, with watercolour tinted drawings of vernacular architecture in Totnes, Aylesbury, Harrow, Hampstead, Groombridge Place in Kent, and other houses, and architectural detail such as railings, doorways etc 1 x sketch book, in limp linen covers, noted St Malo, dated from August 1908, and with much architectural detail including drawings of railings, a watercolour of Pippingham Manor in sussex, together with notes indicating some possible alterations 1 x sketch book, with drawing of Pembroke College Cambridge, and Farringdon House, and many sketches of detail 1 x sketch book, undated, bound in linen, details from sculpture in the British museum, drawings of wild-flowers, Japanese figures, and Classical detail 1 x notebook, dated 1941, in pink wrappers, containing measured pencil sketches of houses, railings, and notes 1 x small pocket diary for 1918 partly used as a thumbnail sketch-book of various English country houses"

Biographical / Historical
'Charles Lovett Gill was born in 1880. He trained as an architect with E. G. Warren of Exeter, and he studied at the Royal Academy Schools. In 1904 he was the Ashpitel Prizeman of the Royal Institute of British architects (RIBA), and he became an Associate of RIBA in 1905, and a fellow in 1915. Gill started a practice in London in 1908 and did much work in central London. With Professor Sir Albert Richardson he was joint architect for the Duchy of Cornwall estate in Devon. The Richardson & Gill architectural partnership was eventually dissolved in 1939. Charles Lovett Gill died in 1960, aged 80.'

Processing Information
'Catalogued by Graeme D. Eddie 23 April 2015'

