ID:Coll-1535
Collection, Sub-collection, and Item IDs
'Coll-1535'

Scope and Contents
"Large quarto volume. Manuscript in pen and ink, in red and black, with numerous illustrations in the style of George Augustus Sala, each mounted on grey card with a gilt fillet border; full green morocco, profusely decorated in gilt and black with scroll pattern with the royal arms in the centre, the spine also similarly decorated, gilt edges; extremities with some wear; rebacked, retaining the original spine; with the paper monogram of Lady Gomm; armorial bookplates of Francis Culling & Emily Blanch Carr-Gomm and Sir James Gomer Berry. 1 x letter inserted. to 'Dear Mrs Carr Gomm' from Mary F. Sanders, dated 24 February 1918. Letter offers thanks 'for the album of caricatures' and discusses the caricatures and Louis Philippe."

Biographical / Historical
"This work by William Edmondstoune Aytoun (1813-1865) was first published in the November 1843 issue of Tait's Edinburgh Magazine as part of an article by Bon Gaultier on Young Scotland; or, an Evening at Treport. The illustrator was Lady Elizabeth Ann Gomm (1807-1877). The subject of the work was the visit by Queen Victoria to France in 1843. In September 1843 the Queen and Prince Albert were the guests of Louis-Philippe, King of the French, and his wife Marie-Amelie, at the Chateau d'Eu, their country residence close to Treport. The British royal party arrived on the late afternoon of 2 September on board the newly completed royal yacht 'Victoria and Albert'. The unflattering subjects in the work include the Duke of Wellington, the Prime Minister Robert Peel, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Lord Aberdeen who travelled to France with Victoria and Albert and an overweight Louis-Philippe. Lady Elizabeth Ann Gomm was the second wife of Sir William Maynard Gomm. They married in 1830. In 1842 she accompanied her husband to Mauritius, where he was Governer (1842-49)."

Processing Information
'Catalogued by Graeme D. Eddie 28 March 2014'

