ID:Coll-1321
Collection, Sub-collection, and Item IDs
'Coll-1321'

Scope and Contents
'The scrapbook or album (commonplace book) contains class cards, class certificates, notes and other printed matter relating to the study period of James Kenneth Watson at Edinburgh University - covering 1888-91, and subjects such as Chemistry, Practical Chemistry, Anatomy, Practical Anatomy, Anatomical demonstrations, Botany, Natural History, Institutes of Medicine, Practical Physiology, Practical Pathology, Practical Materia Medica, including Pharmacy, Materia Medica, General Pathology, Clinical Surgery, and Midwifery and Diseases of Women. The material is pasted into the book. The album is signed and dated 1885 by J. K. Watson, and there is a signature too from E. Gross to J. K. Watson. In addition to the study content, there are ink sketches, photographs and poetry in the album. Two of the sketches are signed E. H. Wilcox 1887. There are photographs of: Lighthouse, Farne Islands - June 1893 Pinnacle Rocks, Farne Islands - June 1893 Lanercost Abbey (2) - July 1893 Durham Cathedral - looking west - July 1893 Scarborough (3) - August 1893 Pwll-y-Pant - view from - December 1893 Valley - Llanfair... - July 1895 Caerlaverock Castle - August 1896 There is a poem by Elisabeth Gross, signed December 1885. On the cover of the album is a photograph (oval lozenge) showing two figures.'

Biographical / Historical
'James Kenneth Watson was an alumnus of Edinburgh University, graduating with the degrees of MB CM (1892) and MD (1896). His thesis was on The etiology, pathology, and clinical significance of albumosuria and peptonuria. After graduation and into his medical career, he would hold posts as House Surgeon at Essex and Colchester Hospital, House Surgeon at Morpeth Dispensary, Assistant House Surgeon at Sheffield Royal Hospital and Assistant House Surgeon at Sheffield General Infirmary. Watson had been a member of the Royal Medical Society (Edinburgh) and the British Medical Association. He died in the late 1940s.'

Processing Information
'Compiled by Graeme D. Eddie, Edinburgh University Library, Special Collections.'

