Maastricht Chalk" p. 122 "Crag near Montpellier; Tertiary strata in Italy; Palm wood structure; Chert definition p. 123 "Crag of Sarity[]d. beaves coal; Val d\'Arno; Cetacea why not found p. 125 "Conglom[erate] of Mezen B. Rouse; King\'s Proclam[atio]n ag[ains]t vice & immorality p. 126 "Slat of Fraud; Evidence at Q[uater] Sess[ion] transported; Wilts[hire] Sess[ion] Council; City buried in Pontine marshes p. 127 "Scotch Educ[atio]n at Oxf[or[d […] Ch[urch] of Eng[lan]d […]; Attornies queries p. 128 "Clerk of the Peace; Silex Resinite; Basin of the Loire & Seine" p. 129 "Clink stone; Wilts once manufacturing. Why; Lava of [Puy] Pariou trees; vivarais Volcs. &c" p. 130 "Boulade Scrope theory of it; Recent cones in Val della bue" p. 131 "Lava on Etna Cascading; District unexpected in Cantal; Lucretius on men growing from earth; Session for criminal briefs; att[orn]ies profits – why bills high" p. 133 "Rule of barristers; Session gains of barristers; Att[orn]ies" p. 134 "Firestone Warminster Whetstone from; d\'o, d\'o & Blackdown same; silicified wood in Portland; Fish from Bituminous shale Isleben; skeleton & teeth in Chalk W." p. 135 "Indigestible, Fin of the ballista; Warminster & Blackdown firest.; Melania *inquinate* from Chuli Farm" p. 136-7 "Crystalliz[atio]n Chalcedony; Chalk fossils d\'o Firest; Tricks of dealers; Egypt fossils" p. 137 "Alcynia from Sincapore [?]; Cetacea 2. Beneath chalk; Stonesfield fern; Qy. Of Dr Fowler" p. 138 "Marble of Monette Auvergne; Att[orn]ies; Apprenticeships; Diluvian Warminst[e]r; Geology not comsmogony" p. 139 "Elevation in Geology why unseen; Earthquakes what effect submarine; Lord Mansfield maxim for Poor Laws; Oath of Att\'ies of honesty; Volcanic ashes from Vesuvius &c" p. 140 "Dead bodies in bavaris exposed; Vallies excavation of; Lengend\'m Mills on Educ\'n Enc. Brit.; Transmigr\'n of matter. Smollet; Age of trees oak Surrey p. 141 "Strutts legendum; Olives at Tibur- Rome; Extant to Wh. Sand may be furrowed; Storm Nov. 1824 Crisis 146.2; Horsham Stone" p. 142 "Grooving of oolite Castle Combe 147 &; Aristocratic feeling in Engl\'d; Mortgages render men Depend\'t; Aristocratic feeling in Italy p. 144 "Legend\'m Raffles on Vol\'c Ash in Java; Large crystals in Lava of Ischia; Chippenham oolite disturbed; Viscid bitumen Auvergne; Architecture; Kelloways Somerford" p. 145 "Lancerote volc\'s; Salt vesuvius bis; G[…]h of sandst. Coast messina; Stromboli M. Boleo" p. 147 "Age of trees; Druid sandstone; Barrows on chalk waste not; Table of queries at end of note" p. 148 "England lesser drainage Tacitus; River flow from older to younger beds; Prejudices in Geology; Bagshot sand proof of elevati\'n mod\'; Primogeniture Spinster" p. 149 "Mastodon in chalk Ed[inburgh] Phil. Jour[nal]; Strata only whne water has existed; Temperature from Earth Fourier; Val de Bagnes Ed[inburgh] Phil. Jour[nal]" p. 150 "Legend\'m in Geol\'y; Stat. of Distribn. affects Primogenit[ure] how; Mathematical lectures in Lond[o]n; Bagshot Sand" p. 151 "Shells pulverized only in shallows; Consolidation of modern rock; Flemming reference to Oolite structure of Castle combs" p. 153 "Ischia eruption large crystals; Volcanic ashes see Raffles; Legend[u]m Raffles java; Change of fluid Lias crystal[ise]d; Age of Trees durability of Wood; Oolite Castle Combe dislocated; Springs submarine Silex; Bitumen Viscid in Auvergne" p. 154 "Castle Combe stone" p. 155 "Architecture Greeks Goths; Legend[u]m V. Buch Lancarote; Mission Mod[er]n Form[ation] of stone" Index Contin\'d p.152 Continued from p. 165 p. 155 "Stromboli high as Etna. dead fish." p. 156 "Monte Bolca fish theory; Delos Limest. Elev\'d" p. 157 "Votive tablets to Neptune; Floods in N. of Italy; Apes not found fossil; Subseq\'t change of Strata Tunbridge" p. 158 " D\'o by diff\'t minerals; tabular view of the conversion; diff\'t org. rem. Into minerals; Tunbridge Sand" p. 160 "Silicified chalk fossils. Chalk; human remains if silifcif\'d" p. 161 "silification; Destruction; Pyrites"', "Sketches of geological formations including of Pico Grande, Serra d'Agoa and Curral, 1850s.", "Letter to Sir Charles Lyell from Pedro Maffiote staing that he has just received a copy of the 'Manual of Elementary Geography' and he complements Lyell on the work. He describes new shells that he has found at Las Palmas, 4 July 1854.", '10 boxes of correspondence 2 boxes of miscellaneous papers and lecture notes 24 boxes of offprints of papers 294 notebooks', 'Document written by Sir Charles Lyell at Messina on the Island of Sicily describing his visit there in the autumn of 1857. The bulk of the document is spent describing the way lava flows down both steep and gentle slopes and specifically discusses the lava flow resulting from the 9 month long eruption of 1852/3. In addition he discusses the formation of the Val del Bove, 9 November 1857.', 'Letter to Sir Charles Lyell from Pedro Maffiote telling Lyell that layers of sand and shells have been found which are similar to those from Sainte Catherine which Maffiote had previously sent to Lyell. These were found while digging the foundations of a house in the centre of Las Palmas on the Island of Grand Canaria, 28 May 1855.', 'Notes and Indices including an Index to an article on James D. Dana, Notes on the Origin of the Caldera of Palma, Index [to an article] on Junghuhn and Notes on Harting, October 1854.'

Biographical / Historical
'The correspondence of Sir Charles Lyell is arranged in alphabetical order and includes letters from colleagues and acquaintances from around the world.', 'The work of Sir Charles Lyell brought him into contact with a number of leading figures of his age from Great Britain and abroad, particularly the United States. This series contains correspondence he continued with geologists, naturalists and other figures including John Pye Smith non-conformist divine, Sir Henry James director-general of the Ordnance Survey, Searles Valentine Wood and Anton Wilhelm Florentin von Zuccalmaglio.', "Charles Lyell lectured at King's College London in 1832 and again in 1833. He gave a single course at the Royal Institution in 1833.", "Sir Charles Lyell spent some time travelling in North America and published Travels in North America, ( 1845) . He amassed a collection of cuttings from various American newspapers which touched on various aspects of American life at the time including the Mexican War, politics (such as slavery, protectionism and taxation) and American universities (such as Harvard). Extracts from Lyell's aforementioned work, which was serialised, also feature.", 'In 1822 Charles Lyell began a geological survey of the County of Forfarshire for Dr John McCulloch who was preparing a geological map of Scotland. He combined the study with a long trip to his parental estate where he also entertained Professor William Hooker. Lyell returned in 1824 to complete 2/3 of the survey, with the companionship firstly of a Captain Ogilvy and later the Rev William Buckland. The studies led to his first published paper On a Recent Formation of Freshwater Limestone in Forfarshire, ( 1826) which he read at the Geological Society of London in 1824 and was later published in their transactions.', 'This series documents the fascination with which scientists of the early to mid 18th century regarded sea serpents. Numerous sightings were recorded, some of which are documented by these letters and cuttings.', 'This series contains the information gathered by Sir Charles Lyell on a visit to Madeira and the Canary Islands in the winter of 1853 and spring of 1854. He studied the volcanic and geological features of the island including fossils and shells.', 'The correspondence of Sir Charles Lyell includes letters from colleagues and acquaintances from around the world.', 'This series contains printed papers which relate to the work of Sir Charles Lyell as a geologist.', 'Notebook No. 129 was kept by Lyell during his trip to America in 1845-6, after his lecture tour, and contains his observations while he visited several plantations worked by enslaved people extracted from undocumented regions of Africa, and bought at auction. Mr. and Mrs. Lyell stayed with James Hamilton Couper at Hopeton plantation for two weeks in January 1846. Couper was a member of the British Royal Geological Society, and Lyell was President at the time. Hopetoun plantation was established by John Couper and James Hamilton, who had immigrated to Savannah, Georgia from Scotland as teenagers. John Couper\'s son, James Hamilton Couper took over as estate manager, and engaged in the trafficking of 637 people from Africa in 1806 to prepare the fields of their plantation, growing sea island cotton, sugar, and rice. Two important features of the plantation were the plantation canal, for irrigation and transportation, which Lyell took particular interest in, and a portable railroad. In 1833, the plantation was lauded as being the "finest example of crop diversification and efficient slave management" by a prominent southern publisher. When Lyell visited, there was likely 500 enslaved African people working 1,000 planted acres. Hopeton was a destination for many from Europe to witness slave labour, and reportedly "went away very much impressed with the humanity and skill with which James Hamilton Couper managed his slaves." In 1846, Sir Charles Lyell described Couper as "a benevolent slaveowner" and gained at Hopetoun "an hereditary regard and attachment between master and slave."', 'The earthquake which occured in the Wairarapa region of New Zealand in 1855 was the biggest earthquake New Zealand has ever suffered. 5000 km2 was shifted vertically, the maximum horizontal shift was 12 metres and the maximum uplift was 6 metres. These notes enabled Lyell to include an account of the earthquake in the 10th edition of Principles of geology, or, The modern changes of the earth and its inhabitants considered as illustrative of geology, ( 1867-1868) .', "Lyell's first visit to Sicily was in 1828 when he journeyed to Mount Etna to gather evidence for his theory that geological change was gradual and took place over millions of years. This ran counter to the Upheaval theory which was current at the time. This theory held that geological change was the result of a number of catastrophic events. He revisited Sicily in 1857 and 1858 to gather further evidence against the Upheaval Theory. He proved beyond doubt that the geology of Mount Etna was built up by a series of small eruptions rather than by one or two huge events. He was greatly aided in his research in Sicily by members of the Gemmellaro family, Carlo, Guiseppe and Gaetano Giorgio who were local geologists."

Processing Information
"Archivist's NoteRachael Third 12 December 2001", "Archivist's NoteRachael Third 13 September 2001Reviewed and edited byElise Ramsay 12 May 2020", "Archivist's NoteRachael Third 09 January 2002"

