ID:ORMS
Collection, Sub-collection, and Item IDs
'Or Ms 460', 'Or Ms 510', 'Or Ms', 'Or Ms 646', 'Or Ms 20'

Scope and Contents
"This work, the greatest oriental treasure of Edinburgh University Library, is one of the supreme masterpieces of Persian book painting and one of the most important medieval manuscripts from either West or East. It was written by the historian and vizier to the Ilkhanid court, Rashid al-Din, and copied in Tabriz by the author's own scribes and illustrators. There is some debate as to the exact date of this manuscript, but it was almost certainly completed within the author's lifetime, making it one of the earliest copies in existence.This work is a world history which encompasses a range of cultures, from China in the East, to Ireland in the West, from the time of Adam. It is written in the Naskh script and contains 70 illustrated folios.", "Farmān or royal order of Emperor Akbar II dated 5th October 1807, conferring upon Colonel John Baillie of Leys, British Resident at the Court of Oudh, the three titles: 'Imād al-Daulah' (Pillar of the State), 'Afial al-Mulk Bahadur' (Most Noble Champion of the Country) and 'Arslan Jang' (Lion in Battle). It is written on gilded paper pasted on silver-printed red cloth and bears the Emperor's seal in black ink and a large tughrā' or monogram in gold and red at the top.", "The collection of over 700 oriental manuscripts includes some of the greatest treasures of Edinburgh University Library. The manuscripts are mainly Islamic, written in Arabic or Persian, but there are also Jewish Torah scolls, Buddhist texts on palm leaves and Hindu manuscripts.The Al-Bîrûnî, Rashid al-Din and Mahabharata manuscripts are the best-known items (Or Ms 161, Or Ms 20, Or Ms 510). Other treasures include a beautiful Koran (Or Ms 148) which belonged to Tipu-Sahib, Sultan of Mysore, 1749- 1799 A.D., who was killed in the battle to defend his city, Seringapatam, against the British. Arabic manuscripts include commentaries on the Koran; traditions of the Prophet; prayers; law, general history and biography; medicine, mathematics, philosophy and ethics; and, grammar, rhetoric, poetry, prose, tales, dictionary, and controversy. Persian manuscripts include theology, history, biography, and travel; mathematics and astronomy; ethics, poetry, music, composition and proverbs, tales and romances; grammar and dictionary; and, agriculture and war. Hindustani manuscripts deal with history, poetry, tales and astrology. Turkish manuscripts include material acquired in Astrakhan with several early Ottoman texts, divans of Neva'i and items of dialectical interest. There are also around 100 bundles or parcels of Buddhist works on palm leaves in Burmese, Pali, Sanskrit, Siamese, Tamil, and Tibetan; and Sanskrit charters on copper plates.", "A monumental epic (or perhaps more correctly a 'chronicle') dated as a text to about 400 BCE – 400 CE, the Mahābhārata consists of dramatic narrative and sermonising didactic on ethics and moral law (dharma) as played out in the lives of two groups of dynastic cousins who fought over control of Bhāratavarṣa, present day central north India. It is one of the two major epics of ancient India, the other being the Rāmāyaṇa. This extensive scroll, made by a workshop of scribes and painters, is inscribed with text in Sanskrit and punctuated by decorative cartouches inset with delicately rendered illustrations from the story.Sequence of miniaturesThe text is preceded by a series of 15 large miniatures, with others between the various parvans (books), as well as a series of small quatrefoil-shaped ones interspersed through the text of the Ᾱdiparvan and Sabhāparvan, as detailed below. There is no special treatment for the Bhagavadgītā. All the miniatures have gold backgrounds with red and white flowers, green leaves, blue diamond shapes and gold flowers in orange cartouches.Click here to open a detailed description of the illustrations.", 'A manuscript translation of the first book of Daniel (Bible, Old Testament) into Singhalese by Philip Anstruther in 1824. Printed title page, 23 folios.'

Biographical / Historical
"While serving as a high-ranking adviser to the Ilkhanid court, the former physician and court historian Rashid al-Din (d. 1318) was commissioned to compile what would become one of the most important historical and artistic documents within Islamic intellectual tradition. The Jami' al-Tawarikh was to be an illustrated history of the world as it was known to the Mongol court, covering not only the history of the Mongols, but also that of the Chinese, Franks and Indians. Situated in the highly international and multi-cultural city of Tabriz in modern-day Iran, the scriptorium of Rashid al-Din gathered artists from all parts of the Mongol empire and beyond."

Processing Information
'Description compiled by John Brockington, 1998. Revised by John Brockington and Andrew Grout, 2018, with the help of Naomi Appleton and Brian Black. Keyed into ArchivesSpace by Aline Brodin, September 2018.', 'Top-level description compiled by Aline Brodin in April 2018.'

