GB 238 GD2

'GD2/1', 'GD2/4', 'GD2/3', 'GD2/5', 'GD2', 'GD2/2'


'This section contains twelve separate folders within which are photographs, journals and reports on visits abroad and documents relating to various other topics. There is material relating to India, China, Japan, USA, Germany, and Africa, as well as the World Council of Churches and British Council of Churches. There are also assorted minutes and memoranda.', "The collection contains: Oldham's correspondence (1892-1965) including references to Oldham's conversion and his work in India with the YMCA, to his work to promote co-operation between missions and denominations such as through the 1910 World Missionary Conference, the 1937 Oxford conference and the World Council of Churches, to German missionaries in World War 1 and Germany in the 1930s, to Indian and African (particularly educational and East African) issues, to the establishment of the International Institute of African Languages and Cultures and other research projects, and to publications and lectures by Oldham; material relating to the Moot including minutes (1938-1947), papers and reports; articles, papers, addresses, notes and other material by Oldham (c 1909-1957) including drafts of books and material on the Advisory Committee on Native Education in Africa (1931-1934); pamphlets, press cuttings, reports, minutes and other items collected by or about Oldham including obituaries; extracts from journals by Betty Gibson recording trips with Oldham (c 1921-1928); engagement diaries of Oldham (1921-1956) and his colleague Kathleen Bliss (1943-1980); notes made by Bliss and other biographers on research into Oldham's life, correspondence of Bliss about Oldham biographies, archives sources and reminiscences (1960s-1987) including some items from Oldham's family; and photographs.", 'This material consists of material relating to works by Oldham and others including biographical items about Oldham. There are: typescripts from the 1920s, 1930s and 1957 as well as much undated material; published works including assorted offprints, extracts, copies, minutes, and newspaper clippings; book drafts in manuscript for Life is encounter and New hope in Africa; manuscript notes and typescripts; pamphlets; and, assorted notes.', 'Correspondence (1829-1990) including copies of relevant letters from the John White papers. Most of the boxes contain between eight and fourteen folders. The John White papers include memoranda, letters, covers, and drafts etc. Subjects range from the World Council of Churches to a small amount on the Iona Community.', 'The papers consist of manuscript minutes 91938-1943), typed minutes (1938-1947) and contributions. The latter includes Naturrecht by Rommen, On Christian ethics by Brunner, and contributions by Oldham and various other authors.', 'The diaries are those of Oldham himself covering the period 1921 and 1956, and those of Dr. Kathleen Bliss covering 1943 to 1980.'


"Joseph Houldsworth Oldham, pioneer of ecumenical missionary and social concern, was born in 1874 of Scottish parents in India. He was educated in Edinburgh and at Oxford from where he graduated in 1896. A religious conversion prompted Oldham to travel to India in 1897 to work with the YMCA where he stayed for three years, marrying Mary Fraser in 1898. Illness forced them to return in 1901 and Oldham went on to study theology at New College, Edinburgh and in Germany. On his return to Scotland he was twice an assistant minister but was unable to secure his own ministry. In 1908 he became organising secretary for the 1910 World Missionary Conference at Edinburgh, regarded by many as the starting point of the modern ecumenical movement, and he was subsequently secretary of the Conference Continuation committee. In 1912 Oldham founded the International Review of Missions which, under Oldham's editorship until 1927, established itself as the most prominent missionary periodical in the world. During World War 1 Oldham worked to keep the spirit of internationalism alive through his writings and became a trusted adviser of the government on missions and German missionaries in particular. With the return of peace Oldham continued to promote the cause of co-operation between mission boards. He became the founder and secretary in 1921 of the International Missionary Council. He also travelled widely (often with his secretary Betty Gibson) and was especially concerned with education and the issues raised by colonial administration in Africa. His knowledge of both India and Africa thrust him into the role of mediator between Europeans, Africans and Indians in Kenya and his principle that African native interests should be paramount was embodied in government policy in 1923. Also in that year Oldham was a key figure in the establishment of a committee on Native Education in Tropical Africa. His Christianity and the Race Problem was published in 1924 and was his most substantial and successful book. After organising the first conference of missionary educators and colonial administrators in 1926, he was instrumental in securing funds for the founding of the International Institute of African Languages and Cultures. From 1931 to 1938 he was its administrative director and responsible for much of the work which made Lord Hailey's African Survey possible. Oldham continued, often in partnership with Lord Lugard, to advise on government and administration in Kenya, however he also remained concerned about the future of the Christian missions and the church. As a layperson Oldham grew more convinced of role of the laity in this future and the need for a co-operative relationship between religious and secular groups and, to this end, encouraged small study groups as a means of research. He was, from 1934, chairman of the research committee of the Universal Christian Council for Life and Work and a key figure at the 1937 Oxford conference. His efforts were to influence Christian thinking for a generation and lead to the formation of the World Council of Churches. During the Second World War he continued to encourage debate about lay responsibility in society. Through the meetings of his 'Moot' with such figures as T.S. Eliot and John Baillie and through his Christian Newsletter he initiated much new thinking about Christian responsibility in modern society. From his efforts the Christian Frontier Council developed. Oldham retired from public life to Dunford, Sussex but continued to write, particularly about Africa, and was involved with the formation of the Capricorn Africa Movement. He was awarded honorary degrees from Edinburgh (1931) and Oxford (1937) and appointed CBE in 1951. Oldham's wife died in 1965 and Oldham himself died in 1969 at St Leonards-on-Sea, Sussex. Dr Kathleen Bliss, who collected much of the Oldham material together, worked with Oldham from the establishment of the Christian Newsletter and Christian Frontier Council and later worked for the Church of England Board of Education. She was a close friend of Oldham's and had intended to write his biography but died in 1989 before she could complete it."