''


"Undated ms text or notes opposite or on the reverse of printed text. Mention of paget's 'Clinical lectures' (1875) give a likely date for the lecture notes as being between the late-1870s or early-1880s. The contents include: Inflammation; Abscess; Sinus and Fistula; Ulceration; Gangrene; Erysipelas; Fevers; Traumatism; Wounds; Gunshot wounds; Poisoned wounds; Burns and scalds; Arteries; Haemorrhage; Fractures; Injuries of joints; Muscles; nerves; Anaesthetics; Amputations; Constitutional states produced by injury; Surgical aspects of general diseases; Tumours; Diseases of blood vessels; Tendons; Injuries and diseases of the face, neck, spine, hernia, intestines, rectum etc. With ms additions to Inflammation; Abscess; Sinus and Fistula; Ulceration; Gangrene; Erysipelas; Fevers; Traumatism; Wounds; Poisoned wounds; Burns and scalds; Arteries; Haemorrhage; Fractures; Constitutional states produced by injury; and, Surgical aspects of general diseases."


"James Matthews Duncan was born in April 1826 in Aberdeen. After education at Aberdeen grammar school, he entered Marischal College, Aberdeen, and graduated M.A. in April 1843. He began the study of medicine there, continuing at Edinburgh University in 1845, and then returning to Aberdeen where he graduated M.D. Duncan was junior assistant to Dr James Simpson, Edinburgh University, 1847. He assisted Simpson, along with Dr George Keith, in experiments with anaesthetics, successfully using chloroform, 1847. He commenced private practice in Edinburgh, 1851. Fellow, Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, and lectured there on midwifery, 1853. Physician to ward for diseases of women, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, 1861. Helped found Royal Hospital for Sick Children in Edinburgh. he was Physician Accoucheur and Lecturer in midwifery, St Bartholomew's Hospital, 1877. Duncan was President, London Obstetrical Society, 1881, and Goulstonian Lecturer, Royal College of Physicians, 1883. James Matthews Duncan died in Baden-Baden on 1 September 1890"


'Catalogued by Graeme D. Eddie12 June 2015'