Coll-790

'Coll-790'


'The McClintock collection of material is made up of two major tranches, both received from the Faculty (later School) of Law, the first arriving in 1987 and the second in 2011. These are: Material at MSS 2581-2588 - McClintock Probation Studies - This is composed of numerous files and folders of information about: non-indictable assaults; non-indictable wounding; robbery; crimes of violence in the metropolis; young offenders; judicial conferences; the University of Cambridge Advanced Course in Criminology; a Scottish Committee of Criminal Statistics; the Magistrates Association, and its Treatment of Offenders Committee; information on results of probation collected by Van Dulken and McClintock; a typescript copy ofCrimes of violence: an enquiry by the Cambridge Institute of Criminology into crimes of violence against the person in London; departmental sub-committee minutes; a seminar on long term imprisonment; the Prison Officer Association; crime among immigrants; material relating to probation; Scottish material; appendices toThe dangerous offender; and material relating toCrimes against the person. Material at E2011.33 - Borstal, indictment and other material - This tranche is composed of: Borstal schedules 1960s; punishments and treatments of young offenders Borstals and Remand Homes; indictments 1960s and 1970s; various project papers and files; police regulations, 19th century; Norman House questionnaires; probation follow-up reports; recidivist probation follow-up reports; magistrate courts and offenders; lectures and research papers; Hunterscombe project inmate files; statutes and bills; LL.B. syllabuses and papers pre-1965; past-examination papers 1948-67; course reading lists; conference papers; and, North American material.'


'Frederick Hemming McClintock was born in 1926. In 1960 he was Assistant Director of Research at the University of Cambridge, Institute of Criminology. While there he worked on research for the laterCrimes of violence: an enquiry by the Cambridge Institute of Criminology into crimes of violence against the person in Londonpublished by Macmillan in 1963. He became Professor of Criminology at Edinburgh University in 1974, a post from which he retired in 1993. He was Dean of the Faculty of Law from 1982-1985. McClintock was a council member of the Scottish Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders (SACRO) and of the Scottish Association of Victim Support Schemes (SAVSS), and was a member of the Perks Committee on Criminal Statistics. SACRO holds an annual McClintock Lecture. Frederick Hemming (Derick) McClintock, Professor Emeritus of Criminology, died in Edinburgh on 22 May 1994.'