''


"Content Description The ms and ts/printed items are: 1 x copy ts sheet 'Islam in India' [1961 statistics], 1p 1 x ts paper, untitled, but concerned with 'talks about Islam', and referring to 'four fortnightly evening meetings, sponsored jointly by the Student Christian Movement and the Islamic Cultural Centre ... held at the Student Movement House in London' [1963], 7pp 1 x copy sheet 'Christian/Muslim Conversations. Summary of the Results', Cartigny, March 206, 1969, 1p 1 x ms postcard [Inside a mosque] from 'Colin' in Cairo, 10 October 1970, to 'Dear Bishop', and referring to the 'letter you left behind', how 'the events in Jordan have been much in my mind having met so many of the folk there', how he 'much enjoyed the three weeks in Lebanon also', how he found 'the 2 main mosques in Damascus very impressive indeed', how 'Brian de Saram is now with us, and it's good to have him around', and finally how he 'shall have a further programme this year ... N.T Greek and exegesis and some English and Hebrew' 1 x ts being a review of Christianity and Islam: A battle for the true image of Man Rudolf Freilin, trans. from the German by Hugh Latham. Published Floris Books, Edinburgh, 1978, 1p 1 x ms postcard [African wildlife - Kongoni] from 'Toby Howarth' in Nairobi, 19 January 1990, to 'Dear Kenneth', referring to a 'letter which arrived', how it 'has been a wonderful and exciting time here in Kenya', and how he goes 'up to Uganda this weekend' 1 x ts letter, dated 3 April 2003, from Noelle Barkema, Assistant Publicist, Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co., Michigan, to Bishop Kenneth Cragg, Wycliffe Hall, and referring to the enclosure of 'a complimentary copy of Who are the Christians in the Middle East by Betty Jane Bailey and J. Martin Bailey, with our thanks for your words of endorsement' 2 x cards with prayers, 'Advent Collect' ts, 'Good Friday Collect' ts, 'Prayer for all sorts and conditions of men' ts, and 'O Lord who are afflicted in the sorrows of humanity...', ms"


 


'Catalogued by Graeme D. Eddie, 5 July 2016.'