'', '/2/5', '/2/6', '/2/7', '/2/1', '/3', '/4', '/2/4', '/2/3', '/2/2', '/1', '/2'


"Waddington's letters to Yolanda chiefly concern arrangements for meeting and potential work opportunities for Yolanda. Many letters are undated. There are also two other letters: one from an unnamed correspondent in Rhodesia and one from Justin Waddington, concerning Waddington's book The Man-Made Future\\>.Conditions Governing AccessOne letter is restricted and cannot be produced. Researchers will need to fill out a Data Protection undertaking form to access the rest of this material.CorrespondenceSonnabend, Yolanda (artist and theatre designer)", "Contains photocopied newspaper articles, scientific papers and typescript essays and letters to Waddington from various, chiefly relating to Waddington's research. Also contains some photocopied draft illustrations.", "Contains: a summary outline of chapters for 'Tools of Thought', a document titled 'Threats and Promises of Science: draft for discussion' (July 1970), typescript course outlines titled 'Bases for Futures' and 'Assessment and Prognoses' and an application for a short term grant to employ Yolanda Sonnabend as Waddington's research assistant to develop a 'School of the Man-Made Future.'", "Typescript contains some of Yolanda Sonnabend's draft illustrations. There are also some loose figures and pages. Typescript is incomplete.", 'Manuscript is in typescript and also contains draft illustrative figures.', "Contains: a draft of Hugo Vickers' obituary of art critic Stuart Preston; a photocopy of 'The Sciences and Arts Share a Common Creative Aesthetic' by Robert S. Root-Bernstein (published in The Elusive Synthesis: aesthetics and science\\i> ed. A.I. Tauber, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1996), 'Learning to think with emotion' by Robert S. Root-Bernstein and Michele Root-Bernstein (Chronicle of Higher Education\\i>, 14 January 2000), 'Sensual Chemistry: aesthetics as a motivation for research' by Robert S. Root-Bernstein (Hyle-International Journal for Philosophy of Chemistry\\i>, 9:1, 2003), and 'Artistic Scientists and Scientific Artists: the link between polymathy and creativity' by Robert S. Root-Bernstein and Michele Root-Bernstein (Creativity: from potential to realization, ed.s. Robert J. Sternberg, Elena L. Grigorenko and Jerome L. Singer, American Psychological Association, 2004).Art and scienceFile of letters to Yolanda Sonnabend, chiefly from C.H. Waddington/3Sonnabend, Yolanda (artist and theatre designer)Waddington, Conrad Hal, 1905-1975 (embryologist and professor of animal genetics, University of Edinburgh)1 filec.1967-c.1977CLX-A-1234data_value_missing_633f7797ed26b48d41cd2641076e8b3cdata_value_missing_8265fc84e4a55bdeace238220ae50a69Waddington's letters to Yolanda chiefly concern arrangements for meeting and potential work opportunities for Yolanda. Many letters are undated. There are also two other letters: one from an unnamed correspondent in Rhodesia and one from Justin Waddington, concerning Waddington's book The Man-Made Future\\>.Conditions Governing AccessOne letter is restricted and cannot be produced. Researchers will need to fill out a Data Protection undertaking form to access the rest of this material.CorrespondenceSonnabend, Yolanda (artist and theatre designer)Material relating to 'Significance and Form in Nature and Art: IV Waddington Memorial Conference' held in Perugia, Sala Brugnoli-Palazzo Cesaroni, 19 March 1993/4Sonnabend, Yolanda (artist and theatre designer)1 folder1993CLX-A-1234data_value_missing_c7688d73bb158eae69a870723ce08c5ddata_value_missing_371b9a95d339492108ce8b46242acef2Contains: a large conference poster; Yolanda's notes for presenting at the conference as well as her notes from other speakers' talks, including some sketch portraits; letters to Yolanda about the conferece; photographs (with negatives)of social events surrounding the conference and of sights around Spello.ConferencesWaddington, Conrad Hal, 1905-1975 (embryologist and professor of animal genetics, University of Edinburgh)", "Contains: contents, preface, introduction, Chapter 1: The Geometrists; Chapter 2: The Magicians; Chapter 3: The Scientists; Chapter 5: Reactions and Continuations; Chapter 6 (untitled), Chapter titled 'New developments in the geometrising tradition' plus pages 7-43 of one untitled partial chapter.", "Contains: /1: original artworks created by Yolanda Sonnabend for C.H. Waddington's book 'Tools for Thought' /2: collections of articles and research materials relating to Waddington's work, including manuscripts for his books 'Beyond Appearance', 'The Man-Made Future' and 'Tools for Thought'; /3: letters to Yolanda Sonnabend, chiefly from C.H. Waddington; /4: printed and photographic material relating to the Waddington Memorial Conference held in Perugia in 1993.", "Contains: a large conference poster; Yolanda's notes for presenting at the conference as well as her notes from other speakers' talks, including some sketch portraits; letters to Yolanda about the conferece; photographs (with negatives)of social events surrounding the conference and of sights around Spello."


"'Tools for Thought' was published by Jonathan Cape in 1977, two years after C.H. Waddington's death. Although Yolanda Sonnabend shared the copyright of this book with Waddington, she was not credited as an illustrator and the full extent of her designs for the book were not eventually included.", "'Behind Appearance' was published by Edinburgh University Press in 1969.", "This book was ultimately published under the title The Man-Made Future\\i> by Palgrave Macmillan in September 1978, three years after Waddington's death.Manuscripts", "From the late 1960s until his death in 1975, Yolanda Sonnabend collaborated with the biologist and embryologist C.H. Waddington. She was employed as his research assistant on various projects, and produced the artwork for his book 'Tools for Thought: how to understand and apply the latest scientific techniques of problem solving', which was intended to be a popular guide to new ways of perceiving and understanding the world's scientific, political and ecological problems. Sonnabend's stark and imaginative pen and ink drawings formed the perfect complement to Waddington's ideas, incorporating triangles, graphs, arrows and bird heads, although unfortunately many of her original designs did not make it into the final book, which was finally published two years after Waddington's death."


'Initial description by Graeme D. Eddie 25 March 2014; catalogued by Clare Button, January 2016.'