''


"The first manuscript page of Volume 1 states, 'Notes taken from the Lectures of Mr. D. Hume, Professor of Scotch law in the University of Edinburgh, delivered in the years 1814 and 15'. The first page is dated 26 October 1814 The four volumes contain chapters or sections headed, e.g. Introductory lecture; Husband and Wife; Parent and child; Guardian and ward; Guardians to Idiots and Furious persons; Master and servant; Distinction of things; Contract of sale; Contract of Location - Tack; Inferior Contracts of Location - Horse hiring; Locatio operarum - Carriers; Charter Party; Contracts of Loan; Contract of Mandate; Contracts of Copartnery; Joint Adventure; Contract of Cautionry; Bills of Exchange; Ex Delicto - Assythment; Verbal injuries; Injuries; Quasi contracts - Restitution; Benevolence; Commonty; March fences; Nautae, Caupones, Statularii;Quasi ex Delicto; Preservation of growing trees; Assignation; Extinction of Obligations - by performance; Compensation; Retention; Negative prescription; Real right of property; Real right of servitude; Servitude of thirlage; Real right of Pledge; Real right of Hypothec; Real right of Tack; Feudal rights; Charter; Instrument of Sasine; Retrospect on the Charter and Sasine; State of the Superiors right; Resignation; Base rights; Defect of Author's title; Heritable bond; Adjudication; Positive prescription; Law of death bed; Strict deed of entail; Services of heirs; Passive titles; Executry; Latter will and testament; Legacies; Jurisdictions; Probation - by Oath of party; Probation - by Writing; Poinding; Personal diligence; and, many many more. The name 'Gavin Alston Esqr WS' appears inside some volumes."


"David Hume was born in 1757. He was the nephew of the philosopher David Hume (1711-1776). Hume became an Advocate in 1779 and a Sheriff in Berwickshire in 1784, then afterwards in West Lothian. In 1786, he became Professor of Scots Law at Edinburgh University. In 1811, Hume was appointed Principal Clerk to the Court of Session, and in 1822 Baron of the Scots Exchequer, a post which he held until the abolition of the body. He had also been a curator of the Advocates' Library in Edinburgh. Hume's publications include Commentaries on the law of Scotland respecting trial for crimes (1800). David Hume died in 1838."


'Catalogued by Graeme D. Eddie 28 March 2014'