Coll-817

'Coll-817'


"The collection is composed of correspondence relating to a number of individuals, principally that of: Lady Helen Primrose, in the form of accounts, letters regarding shale oil, allowances, policies, and marriage settlement, and a small illustration of 'Buttercups and bees' and a photograph card of a small female child, 1882-1914; further letters and notes of Lady H. Primrose in the form of solicitors letters, Tods, Murray and Jamieson, of Edinburgh; further letters and notes of Lady Helen Primrose (Mrs. J. M. Walker) in the form of communication with, and documents of, solicitors Lewin, Gregory and Anderson of London, 1883-1887; further letters and notes of Mrs. Helen Primrose in the form of communication with, and documents of, solicitors R. Jardine of Edinburgh, 1904-1906; Denman correspondence, the first husband of Lady Helen Primrose; papers (letters and telegram) relating to Tom Denman, son of Lady Primrose by her first marriage; papers relating to the Rev. George Prothero of Whippingham. Isle of Wight, co-trustee with the Rev. H. W. Primrose re: Gladys Denman (or Walker), daughter of Lady Helen and J. M. Walker); papers relating to Gladys Walker, only daughter of Lady Helen and J. M. Walker; papers relating to Mrs. Elizabeth Walker, mother of J. M. Walker; papers relating to Sir William Stuart Walker, father of J. M. Walker; papers relating to James Montgomery Walker; papers relating to B. F. Primrose, father of Sir H. W. Primrose KCB, CSI, ISO; papers relating to Sir H. W. Primrose; papers relating to Violet Primrose, sister of Sir H. W. Primrose; and, stamped (Queen Victoria, and US Presidents) and addressed envelopes (28) from the USA and Great Britain, from this period."


'Lady Helen Primrose (fl.1882-1914) had married firstly into the Denman family, and secondly James Montgomery Walker, son of Sir William Stuart Walker (1813-1896). Her children included sons Tom Denman (by the first marriage), and Richard Douglas Denman (by the second marriage), and daughter Gladys Walker (by the second marriage). Co-trustee with regard to daughter Gladys, was the Rev. Canon George Prothero, Whippingham, Isle of Wight (George Prothero M.A. of Brasenose College, Oxford). Prothero had held Whippingham since 1857, and was sub-dean and canon of Westminster, rural dean of North-east Medina on the Isle of Wight, chaplain in ordinary to Her Majesty and J.P. for the county of Worcester.'