''


"Box 1: File - Correspondence, general File - DNB entries - Craufurd, and Dempster File - Agriculture Folder - Correspondence, Dempster permissions from various institutions Box 2: File - Banking, Fisheries, Roads File - Boswell and Burke File - Haldane, Brodie Bundle of loose papers - Papers in St. Andrews University Library Box 3: File - Transcripts of letters (2) - William Smith, Sam Heming, Henry Dundas, Gilbert Elliot, Laing mss, Carlyle, Thorkelin File - Letters of George Dempster to Sir Adam Fergusson, 1756-1813 Bundle of loose papers - Blair Adam muniments Box 4: File - Transcripts of letters (3) - British Fishery Society, Dr. Iain Boyle, Saltoun File - Dempster, Chapters 0-8 File - Dempster, Chapters 9-19 File - George Dempster, Skibo talk Box 5: File - George Dempster, Toronto letters I, Vols.1-4 File - George Dempster, Toronto letters III, Vols.7-19 File - Dundee, Forfar, Skibo, and Rogers Bundle of loose papers Box 6: File - East India Company, Secondary sources File - East India Company, India Office and Jamaica File - Enlightenment / Universities, Clubs Box 7: File - History of Parliament, Debates File - Other House of Commons, Harris Debates, Namier and Brooke File - House of Commons Politics I (Secondary sources), Administrations File - House of Commons Politics II Box 8: File - Scotland and America, Emigration File - 'The Scots Magazine' File - Reading lists etc Bundle of loose papers Box 9: File - Miscellaneous I File - James Ker, John Leslie File - Letham Archive, Lunan and Vinney Minutes, HMC Reports File - Correspondence, Edwin Mellen Press, DNB Box 10: File - Politics I File - Politics II File - Politics III"


'Andrew Monro Lang was a career architect at the Scottish Office. In 1979 he was awarded the degree of M.Phil. (Edinburgh University) for his work, The role of the planner in Scottish local government. Then, in 1996 he obtained his Ph.D. (also at Edinburgh University) for his research on George Dempster of Dunnichen, the 18th century politician and improver.Lang wrote the biography of George Dempster of Dunnichen (1732–1818) for the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (DNB), and in 1998 A life of George Dempster, Scottish M.P. of Dunnichen (1732-1818) published by Lewiston, N.Y. and the Edwin Mellen Press, Lampeter.Andrew Monro Lang died suddenly in 2000.'


'Catalogue updated by Graeme D. Eddie 16 December 2015'